So just based on this, for those who have
been working with web apps for a while,
you might already start to realize
there's a lot of flexibility with this.
Cuz now, all of a sudden,
if you have a backend that's not quite
ready to integrate all the build tools and
everything you need to get it up and
running.
You can just on a specific page,
when you're proposing to start
progressively migrating your apps.
You can say, on this page, we're gonna
drop the CDN and we're gonna add the,
basically, interactivity to this page,
and over time, we'll migrate away.
And then once we have enough
pages that consolidate that Vue,
then we can actually invest
the time to do the build tools.
Because I think a lot of times
when we think about migration,
a lot of times developers are thinking,
code freeze everything, no new features,
and we just stop development.
And we know that practically speaking,
that just rarely works for business.
And so this is a really great way for
us to basically go ahead and migrate
an enterprise app over to something that
use more modern framework technologies.
Now, that said, we have a message here.
Now, what if we wanted to,
let's say, show or
hide it based on whether or
not the message is even or not?
Well, something that Vue is also known for
are their directives.
And so for
those who have come from Angular,
this might look a little bit familiar.
So the way that it works is
that we basically would have
a normal HTML element, so
let's wrap this in a p element.
And then this one, we're gonna say Even,
and this one we're gonna say Odd, okay?
And so the idea here being that, what
we'd like to do is if the message.length
is even, show the Even keyword,
otherwise show the Odd keyword.
And so one way we can do this is we can
use something called Vue directives.
And the way it works is, it's basically
an attribute you add on an HTML element,
and it's prefixed with v-.
So in this case,
if I go v-if = message.length,
and I'll use the % 2 = 0 to
determine that it's even.
And then otherwise, v-else,
it will display the other thing.
So when we refresh this,
we'll see, okay, there we go,
we'll notice that it is currently Odd.
And so now, if I delete the exclamation
mark, that should bring us over to Even.
And so what we see here is,
again, one of the things
I talked about when it came to Vue is that
it builds on top of what you already know.
And so when most people are working with
HTML and CSS, there's a lot of value in
extending upon people's existing knowledge
when it comes to extending APIs.
And so in this regard, by basically
having the convention of the v-, and
then using this if-else statements.
Again, if you know JavaScript, in fact,
you don't even need to know JavaScript,
people would actually understand this
property, or granted, maybe not this part.
But when people are navigating the HTML,
they would actually understand
what's going on here.
Rather than if you had kinda big if-else
blocks that have a bunch of functions in
it, which again, I think sometimes we find
it's a little bit tricky with, I think,
sort of React components.
Those can be harder to follow,
especially if you don't have as
much experience with JavaScript.
But this here keeps visually a semantic,
concise way of telling
people what's going on.
Now, the other directive that I
wanna talk about is this one.
But before we do that,
here's a slide to talk about this.
And this is a while ago from Sam Saccone,
and
what it says here is that 99.7% of
software development in one requirement,
a user should be able to
view a list of items.
And I still think that's
incredibly relevant today, right?
That's what we're doing half the time,
we're talking a bunch of data,
rendering out a list.
And I don't know about you all, but
when I was doing this in React originally,
I realized there's a lot
of different ways to do it.
And I know that there's more of a best
practice now, but that can be confusing
for users, especially if they have
a function that runs the map,
or maybe in this case, it uses a for loop.
There's a lot of kinda
deciding what to do.
And so let's go ahead and
show how rendering a list works in Vue.
So in this case, I'm just gonna do a list
of numbers here just to keep it easy,
and so 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and
we have an array here.
And then what we're gonna do here is
we're just gonna do an unordered list.
And then what are we trying to repeat,
right?
We're trying to repeat the list item.
So what we're gonna have is,
if you might wanna guess, is that we have
the v-for directive, right, using the for
loop concept from JavaScript.
And what are we looping for?
For every number in listOfNumbers,
we're gonna go ahead and
just put the number.
That's it,.
And if you refresh, there you go, done.
Your list is rendered, it's fantastic.
And so what's really nice about this, once
again, is that we are trying to extend
upon people's base knowledge of JavaScript
without getting too much in the weeds.
Again, the syntax is written in a way
that's approachable for people to,
sort of in plain English really.
For number in listOfNumbers,
print number, great,
I understand what that means
even if I don't know JavaScript.
The other fun fact about the declarative
rendering of the curly braces here is that
it's not meant to just
print out variables,
it actually does evaluate
JavaScript statements in there.
So if in the case of, let's say, we wanted
to be really excited about the fact
that it's Even, we can actually do
toUpperCase in here, and run it.
And then you'll see that it'll
actually transform the text,
it'll basically run the JavaScript
inside of it immediately.
So theoretically,
you can also do things like, well,
let's just multiply Math.random in here,
and we refresh this.
Boom, I mean [LAUGH] we got some
interesting numbers up here, but
that's something to consider.
Now, the thing about this is
when people discover this,
sometimes they get really carried away.
And we're talking ternary statements and
ternary statements.
And that to me is very,
I would say, anti-Vue ethos,
in that we're trying to make it easy for
people to understand the code base, right?
So I would say, when it comes to basically
in-lining your JavaScript inside of these
double curly braces, I would say,
keep it to a minimum,
and try to abstract that logic
as much as humanly possible.
So the question we have here is in regard
to the differences between the Vue 2 way
and the Vue 3 way.
So the Vue 3 way, as we see here,
is that you can abstract
a helper function from Vue.
Or for those familiar with the Vue 2 way,
it was new Vue,
you would instantiate
a new Vue app this way.
And so part of the reason this
approach has changed is because Vue
3 has become a lot about becoming
modular and performant, in other words,
being able to split apart
things that you don't need.
With this sort of new Vue approach,
basically,
you have everything instantiated with it.
And it was a lot harder from
a bundling perspective,
think of it from a library
maintenance perspective.
That was a lot of the motivation
behind this new approach,
which you'll see a lot
more in Vue 3 code bases.
Is that there's a lot of helper functions,
which we'll actually see in this workshop,
that allow you to basically break apart
pieces of Vue that are helpful in certain
instances.
And otherwise, it'll know to either drop
certain things and optimize itself away.
>> I expected that v-for inside
the ul instead of an li.
>> So the question here is around
the idea of the v-for element being,
basically, someone having the impression
that they thought that they would
put it on the ul element.
But the reason why this is not the case
is because we have to think through
what exactly we want the renderer
to be looping through, right?
What is the element we're repeating?
And in this case, we're repeating the list
in this regard, and not say it like,
we don't want the entire unordered list.
So for example, if we did this, you'll
see, we'll just show the difference.
So we can do it like this, and
if we refresh it, you'll notice that,
at first glance,
it kind of looks the same.
But when we take a look underneath,
you'll see that there are individual
unordered lists happening in this case.
So don't get me wrong,
if in the case you have a bunch of, okay,
let's just actually give that example.
If in the case,
we have different things that were going
on in each element,
okay, so 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
So we had an object here,
and let's say, name.
Let me do Text Pastry 1 to 3.
And then our id,
let's just do Text Pastry uuid.
Whoa, I need that first,
Text Pastry uuid, boom, okay, save.
Okay, so here we have a more
complex dataset, right?
We have a bunch of objects in each,
and so if I refresh this now,
you might notice that, well, nothing,
did I mess something up syntax wise?
>> There's math on that.
>> I'm doing math, okay,
that totally makes sense.
All right, okay, here we go.
So now if I save this, so
in this particular case,
maybe then inside of here,
we then have a sublist.
So I've realized I actually didn't
even add the other thing I needed.
So we could even say, inside of here,
we had another list inside of here.
That was an 1, 2, 3, 4 example.
Then we might say, for example,
in this particular list,
we want the first item to show the ID,
so we say, number.id.
And then we could then
embed a second list, and
that's where we would loop
through number.list, like this.
So instead of number,
I'm gonna say, switch this to item,
cuz now this is more accurate.
And then number in number.list,
and then number like this.
So then we refresh this.
I broke something.
>> item.list.
>> item.list
>> Number in number.list
should be number in item.list.
>> Yes, [LAUGH] good catch.
Okay, there we go.
And so that's an example of where
you might wanna loop possibly,
although at that point,
it might even be a div.
Kinda be wondering why
you'd want just the one.
But consider basically how you
want the semantic HTML to be
rendered out at the end of the day,
and that's the key thing.
Quick note before the next question,
in case anyone was wondering how I sort of
did the data population,
that is the Text Pastry VS Code extension.
That's highly underutilized, but
it's really great at generating things on
the fly as far as ranges,
and also custom UUIDs,
which is great for random data when you're
doing some sandbox coding like I did.
Next question.
>> Is that data attribute in
the createApp, is that required,
or can we rename it to
something like state?
>> So the question here is around
this particular keyword data here.
In this particular context, when you're
passing a configuration object to
createApp, this is basically a reserved
keyword, in that it is called data, and
that's what it has to be.
However, I will tell you right now that if
you're more of a fan of calling it state,
there is gonna be another style
of components that we'll be
covering that will allow you to
basically name things as you see fit.
But basically, what you're seeing
here is basically a preview
of what is known in Vue 2, or, well,
Vue 2 and Vue 3 as the options API.
In that Vue will provide you a set of
options to do what you need to do inside
of your app.
And those configuration and rail guards
are actually, in my opinion, very powerful
when it comes to people either
onboarding to Vue for the first time.
Or when they're looking to set a standard
and consistency across their team,
options API can be incredibly powerful.
But we'll show a little bit more about how
that works before we get into the other
one, which is composition API, which for
the person who asked that question,
you might be more interested
in when we get to that one.